Does he know that
you're marrying a man in his 70s?
Your face is getting
more and more interesting.
It will be even more interesting
if he finds out.
Hey.
You tell me.
Who do you think I am?
You said you were an uninvited guest.
Then,
do your job properly.
He is… (Support Admin Watch on
kissasia.cam or kisskh.org)
the man I hold dear.
There will be a wedding soon.
Right. And he's an aide
at the constabulary.
And his name is…
Yeol.
That's my name.
If what you said is true,
I do not feel like introducing myself.
Then let us leave it at that.
What brings you here at this hour?
To keep my family under control.
Look, Hong Eun-jo!
You're here with the Young Master?
Young Master!
How much did you drink?
Why is there blood on your face?
Did you get hurt?
Let me help you up first.
Where's Jae-i? Has he already left?
My brother-in-law!
Enough. Enough with that.
Stand up now.
When will Eun-jo be here?
She said she'd come
once her duties are done.
Maybe she's treating someone again.
She must be.
We can't celebrate this day
without Eun-jo!
Including me,
everyone here got her help.
-Right.
-That's right!
Who is this Eun-jo?
Right.
She's also known as Physician Hong.
The Hyeminseo's--
Hyeminseo, I see.
His Highness must be there too.
Look here.
"Control" is
what a man who upholds
law and order does, like me.
It is not something
you impose on your fiancée.
Oh, dear.
It was not her,
but the way you looked at her
that I controlled,
to be precise.
Then you got it right.
But unfortunately,
she just drew a line between us.
That means
she has done nothing to need control,
nor will she ever.
Just keep that in mind.
Especially if you're her fiancé,
you should know.
When will you throw your punch?
I have a feeling it'll be soon.
At least warn me so I can dodge it.
I grew up early.
I outgrew fistfights long ago.
Besides, given my position,
I'm more used to a sword.
Or poison, when it's convenient.
Scary.
Should I be scared?
If you have to be.
Why is everyone making such a fuss
over this lowly girl?
I don't like the way you talk.
That's just the facts.
She's nothing more than a lowly concubine,
sold into our family--
That's it.
I think I've shown enough courtesy
for Eun-jo's sake.
What are you doing?
-Move.
-Why are you doing this?
This is interesting.
Please leave.
Thank you
for all your help so far.
I hope
this is the last time we meet.
-Eun-jo!
Hong Eun-jo!
-Where are you?
-Eun-jo!
-My dear Eun-jo…
What do you think this triangle is about?
It feels like
we should give them some space, right?
All right, everyone. Take ten steps back.
-One.
-Two.
-Three.
-I made it too!
I knew you'd be here.
What? Let go of me.
Wait.
The aide will be joining you as well.
I will.
You ask him.
You're His Highness' right-hand man.
And you're His Highness' confidant.
Your Highness…
what happened with Physician Hong?
Your High--
Let me apologize
for what happened earlier.
It seems I ended up helping you
rather than disrupting you.
Actually, you managed to do both.
Shouldn't you look happier then?
You managed to keep the last shred
of your pride from your admirer.
"And then
they lived happily ever after."
I may be a lowly girl,
but I want to be remembered that way.
There was no other intention.
That really was it.
You can go and tell him now,
if you must ruin that too.
It will not be pleasant
when you pay for this.
Sure.
It really looked like
the two men were competing
over Eun-jo, right?
Yes.
Who was the other man?
That is
a mystery.
You're here.
He seemed like he's from a noble family.
Physician Hong say anything about him?
She's not saying anything.
She seemed a little down this morning.
How's the aide doing?
He's absent today.
Have you heard
any more news about Gil-dong?
What about him this time?
Is this because of the rumor?
The rumor?
Make it quick.
Did you look into it?
Chief Secretary Im's eldest son
brings this into the palace from Ming.
They're seeds.
What are these used for?
I'm so tired these days.
It must be
because it's become warmer outside.
Right.
Where did Grand Prince Dowol
get that ledger?
He just came across it.
You don't believe that, do you?
Well, as long as my stepmother is alive.
You two brothers
must have some interesting history.
I'm tired.
Chief Secretary Im.
The matter is decided. Need I say more?
No, Your Majesty.
It was my needless concern.
The Chief Censor's post lies vacant.
Who shall fill the post?
Is Hong Min-jik
your friend, Secretary Im?
His Majesty wants Hong Min-jik now?
I cannot fathom
what His Majesty is thinking.
His Majesty wants it all.
He wants both a tyrant's power
and a sage king's virtues.
The remonstrance
Lord Hong claims as frank counsel
will be a threat to you, Father.
If you cannot do it,
I will step forward and make a decision.
Lord Hong was bedridden
after his collapse in the Gyeongo Year,
until he woke up a year ago.
Even if he dies now,
no one would suspect--
Watch your words.
He is your father's old friend.
Please tell His Majesty
that I have yet to recover enough
to move about freely.
Is it a rejection?
Serving again as Chief Censor
means my family could be placed in danger,
as in the Gyeongo Year.
Eun-jo has been through enough already.
I cannot make her go through that again.
What makes you believe that would happen?
I just…
cannot bend my principles.
Then how about teaching at an academy?
I can vouch for you in writing.
The stipend should be enough
to provide for your family.
I'm always the one receiving help.
Sa-hyeong.
Thank you.
I'm the one who should thank you.
You saved me from the disgrace
of taking my own friend's life.
Shall I order them taken away?
I hear you've been sleeping poorly.
My only child
has robbed me of sleep these nights.
You do not look so well yourself,
Your Majesty.
My only husband also…
I will say no more.
It is a relief to have you here
in the cold palace.
You must also have heard
that the Grand Prince
has visited the King's chambers recently.
Yes, Your Majesty.
I do not know what prompted him
to meet His Majesty in private,
but it seems
the two brothers joined forces
to bring a corrupt official to justice.
You may think of it that way.
You know how capricious His Majesty is.
Did you forget about the Gyeongo Year?
How could I ever forget
such an dreadful incident?
I should not have brought it up.
Let us not bring court affairs into this.
Right.
I am seeking a suitable match
for the Grand Prince.
Is that so?
Your Majesty.
Is the Grand Prince inside?
Today, I will finally settle his marriage…
The royal physician is here.
Is Yeol ill?
There are no particular signs of illness,
but over the past few days,
he has not quite been himself.
DUMPED
Look here.
The music sounds too sad.
Liven it up a little.
My stomach hurts. Isn't this funny to you?
Why should I laugh?
Because I laugh.
Can't you just support my laughter?
Should I steal her?
I can disguise myself, seduce her
and take my revenge.
What do you think?
Your Highness.
I'm the Grand Prince.
I can steal whatever I want.
I will show them what it's like
to have absolute power.
I don't think she'll be swayed
by my wealth,
my power,
my status,
my style
and my appearance.
For most people,
any one is enough to sway them.
That's just how she is.
She would not be swayed by any of them.
The royal physician sent this letter
listing the Grand Prince's symptoms.
The Queen Dowager ordered that
it be shared with physicians
across the country
to determine his diagnosis.
-Could it be hwabyeong?
-It can't be lunacy, right?
What do you think?
Are you asking me, sir?
We must gather every mind we can.
Please say what you think.
Joy, anger, anxiety,
obsession, sorrow, fear, fright.
His seven emotions are unsettled,
so I suspect it may be melancholia.
The symptoms seem similar
to those of a broken heart, don't they?
A broken heart?
I'm not sure.
I hope this is the last time we meet.
It will be.
Broken heart?
Is it really that hard?
What did you say?
Nothing.
Who would dare reject the Grand Prince?
I personally think
Physician Hong's rejection
was a wise decision.
Giving her heart lightly, only to part,
does her no good.
Who said it was light?
You want to take her as a concubine?
You haven't even wed yet.
Her Majesty would be furious to know--
You're getting far ahead of yourself.
I never even got the chance
to start anything.
Exactly.
Nothing's been started,
so there's nothing to move on from.
It keeps lingering.
That face.
Your face is getting
more and more interesting.
Honestly, I don't like that physician.
If she had a fiancé,
why did she do that to you that night…
There he goes again.
What's that?
"Break"?
You want them to break up?
HYEMINSEO
My lord.
Heading home from duty?
Shall we walk together?
Have you been waiting for me?
Would that be so wrong?
I would love that.
What are you thinking about?
This all feels new to me.
Just a year ago,
when you were on your sickbed,
I couldn't even imagine
walking with you like this.
Sa-hyeong offered me a post.
He said there's an academy in Namwon
in need of a teacher.
And I accepted the offer.
But that's really far away.
Your body has yet to fully recover.
I won't push myself too hard.
My mind would be more at ease there
than it would be wasting time here.
Then, when will you--
I must leave in a few days,
to arrive in time for teaching.
Does that mean
you will leave before my wedding?
I'm afraid so.
He came all this way
because he felt bad about it.
It might be a good thing
that he leaves before the wedding.
I wanted to see your face
adorned for the wedding.
I will stay strong…
and carry myself well through the wedding.
I should get the medicine ready
for your trip.
There's no need to hurry.
If I want to find good ones,
I need to start looking now.
I may be a lowly girl,
but I want to be remembered that way.
Thinking about calling it off again?
Don't say it's for love
because that's nonsense.
What's the real reason
you want to call off the wedding?
Where are you going?
To break it off.
The Grand Prince
is associating with some physician?
Other than that,
I found nothing suspicious.
But I saw the second Young Master
meeting the Grand Prince at the Hyeminseo.
Finally, we meet, Father.
Each time I came, I couldn't meet you.
Did you meet someone before coming here?
That's an intimate question.
I don't deserve such attention, do I?
Right.
You know your place,
and that's your only virtue.
Father…
I happened to overhear
your conversation with Mother.
Am I a lowly concubine's child,
not Mother's?
How foolish of you.
If you had pretended not to hear,
you would have had
no one to fool but yourself.
Why was I raised
as the son of your principal wife?
Is it because you only have one son?
Do not be so disheartened.
It cost me dearly
to silence your courtesan mother.
So you're not completely worthless.
You sold an animal for a hefty price?
Is that what you're saying?
I placed first in the exam.
Just what you wished for the family.
And I will win the post
you long desired as well.
So allow me too to take some credit.
Call off the marriage arrangement
with the Queen Consort's family.
I will not be your breeding horse.
That is exactly what you are for.
I do not wish for anyone flawed
to be born into this world.
Unlike someone else.
And?
Is that why you interfered with my plan?
Judging by how furious you are,
I must have succeeded.
Are you hurt?
That little…
What's going on?
Did you speak to Jae-i about the ledger?
No.
You said the time was not yet right.
Those herbs are for my lord,
so please give me the finest ones.
Of course.
She's smiling again.
What is so…
Can I have
some Mongolian milkvetch roots too?
What do you think you are doing?
I warned you it wouldn't be pleasant.
Let go of me!
Is this about what happened the other day?
I can't stand you.
What is it this time?
Seeing you play a nobleman's sister,
pose as a filial daughter
caring for her father
and dream of a "happily ever after,"
all without knowing your place.
I cannot stand any of it!
I want you to live in misery,
not walk around smiling.
I want you to cry, scream
and blame the world.
Because in reality,
no one is coming to your rescue.
What are you trying to say?
You want me to call off the wedding?
The wedding…
No.
It's a deal.
That deal is
a fight for survival,
like you said, for a lowly girl like me.
So it can't be called off.
I appreciate your charity, though.
How clumsy you are.
What?
What's with that look?
What is it?
Did something happen?
I'm just surprised to see you so suddenly.
What are you doing here…
Are you
here to see me?
You wish.
No, I can't say that.
Because you're right.
I went to the Hyeminseo,
and they said you were here.
So I came to find you.
Why did you want to see me?
When's the wedding?
Next year? The year after?
It's best we don't keep
running into each other.
I should not give him false hope.
In ten days.
Ten days.
So there won't be enough time
to flirt, joke around
or really get to know each other.
Pardon?
What do you like?
What's your taste in food, landscape,
jewelry, art and music?
Which one do you want to start with?
Where's the nearest tailor shop?
We need to go there.
Wait. Stop.
You're joking, right?
Do you think I'm shamelessly
clinging to you just to joke around?
Am I the only one
who feels like this is all too sudden?
I feel the same.
This is
utterly insane.
So I wasn't wrong
on the first day we met.
I guess we can say
I was a dullard after all.
In case you forgot,
I am
loyal to my fiancé.
But that scoundrel…
Why is everyone making such a fuss
over this lowly girl?
He's garbage.
So full of himself.
Are you the same person from yesterday?
Or
have you always been this stubborn?
If I had really meant to be stubborn,
it would've been far worse.
I didn't ask about your fiancé's family
because I want to keep
the power I can wield
as a last resort.
I want to play fair,
so I'm being as patient as possible
and trying to change your mind.
I just really don't get it.
You haven't known me that long.
How much longer do you need
to understand me?
No, forget it.
I'd rather not understand.
I'm going.
Take care.
Just be honest with me.
You're avoiding me now.
Because you're scared.
I'm scared?
What do you mean?
You know what I mean.
Let me make this clear.
My fiancé and I--
You don't love him.
If you did,
that night, you wouldn't have…
I did consider playing along
with your lame excuse,
honoring the line you drew,
giving up altogether.
But I didn't want to.
-So--
-Fine.
I'll be honest with you.
You're right. It was that night.
You know the kind of marriages
people of my class enter into in Joseon.
I decided to do it that night.
You see,
wealth, success, fame,
family, myself,
of all the things
deemed important in this world,
what mattered least to me
was love.
Then, the night I decided to get married,
I asked myself for the first time.
"What if
I'm missing something important?"
And that question
made me anxious.
Perhaps unhappy too.
That's when I saw you.
Looking at the man who had been
waiting for me for over four hours,
I felt like
I had stepped into an old folk tale.
That's all.
I ran from reality
and ran to you.
Blinded by my own self-pity,
I poured out all my frustrations
over my misfortune to a stranger.
And now,
I don't want to be held back
by some folk tale.
That's a lie.
Don't follow me.
I'm the one who got dumped.
Why are you angry?
I just need you to say one thing.
That it's all right.
Why does he care this much?
I am not like my father.
I would have slain
every living creature in your house
on the very day of the literati purge
if I were him.
I don't want to hurt him,
but I must stay firm.
I already gave you my answer.
Does my low status
make my rejection worthless too?
That's not what I meant.
Are you twisting my words on purpose?
You see,
I am not of a status
that allows me to speak my mind
and express my feelings so freely.
I must endure,
keep everything hidden and reveal nothing
because of my status.
So
I can't be swayed
by momentary feelings.
This is
the difference
between you and me.
"Momentary"?
You're right.
As you said,
I grew up living in my own world.
I admit that what I said
was an inconsiderate confession,
driven by one-sided feelings.
I never even thought about
the difference you are talking about.
I didn't need to.
I won't pretend to understand now.
But you know what?
Despite my status,
it took me endless reflection
to stand before the woman I hold dear.
I hesitated at every step on the way here.
And most people
call that courage.
Too bad.
I'm going now.
Madam,
I'm hungry.
Wait here. I'll prepare some snacks.
All right.
You wench, just leave our family already.
I'd rather…
Eun-jo is marrying your grandfather?
What nonsense are you talking about?
What memory is this?
You seem pretty happy,
for someone who is selling his sister
to get by.
Madam, when is Eun-jo's wedding again?
In ten days.
And when is Father leaving?
In five days.
Whatever. I don't care.
This is not my concern.
You wished to see me?
The marriage arrangement
will not be called off.
They say husband and wife are of one mind,
so I must reveal to my wife
who I truly am.
This young lady
from a most esteemed noble house
would be shattered to hear
she is to marry an animal.
Even the concubine's daughter
would willingly become
an old man's concubine for her father.
Why are you bringing her up?
Learn from that girl, Eun-jo.
So I should just shut my mouth
and let you sell me?
Like that lowly wench?
Do you think
refusing to become a breeding horse,
as you put it, will protect your pride?
That girl, Eun-jo, knows
that someone as lowly as her
is not given any choice.
You cannot reveal who you are
to the Queen Consort's…
No, to anyone else.
Your name, your wealth, your honor…
You cannot let go
of any of that.
That is what you are.
I wish you a safe trip.
I hear the land there is beautiful.
I hope you enjoy your time there.
By the way…
Why don't you wait until Eun-jo's wedding?
Now you're the head of the family.
Please take care of her in my stead.
Why are you putting this on me?
Look, you are now--
Seriously!
Hey!
You have nothing to say?
Whatever. It's your life!
Even on my last day.
I apologize.
It's all right.
Ask the innkeeper
to brew the medicinal herbs I gave you.
I'm sorry
you have to attend the wedding alone.
Do not worry.
Just make sure to have a safe journey.
Did you send for me?
How's everything going?
I cannot give you much time.
Does His Majesty know
what incense you brought
into his bedchamber?
Does he know that breathing in the incense
will cloud his mind,
dull his judgment,
and in the end,
leave him no better than a corpse
and your puppet to command?
His Majesty thinks it's a pain reliever.
Let me know when he starts
showing symptoms of addiction.
Chief Secretary Im,
is it this country that you covet?
How dare you?
Do you have no fear of consequences?
So, he's been only fishing for days?
Does His Highness want to be a fisherman?
He could not have the woman he cared for,
so he turned to fish instead.
You're not talking behind my back.
You're just behind my back.
If you want to talk behind my back,
make sure I can't see or hear you.
It's nagging in disguise.
How long must this continue?
I need to know.
I'll let you know when I find out.
Your Highness,
I'm here to report something to you.
There's a rumor going around the market.
What is it?
That the ledger exposing
the Chief Censor's corruption was stolen
by Gil-dong.
That's not a rumor. That's a fact.
That is exactly what baffles me.
I thought only three of us knew it.
There's one more person who knows.
-Who?
Gil-dong.
He was the kind of thief
who wanted to hide
where he stole those items.
Now that his theft is becoming known,
he may be seeking notoriety.
Or perhaps,
he was using you from the beginning.
I must approach this
from a different angle.
A different angle?
Trace the source of the ledger.
Of course.
Tracing where it came from
will reveal how Gil-dong obtained it.
The ledger recorded
the Chief Censor's corruption,
so it is likely that
the person who wrote it
was targeting the Chief Censor.
Meet the Chief Censor and ask him.
He's too bitter toward me
to speak with me.
We're closed today.
Come again another time.
You're the kids from Gwangtong Bridge.
Come here.
Tomorrow is your wedding.
Ask someone else to switch shifts
and get some rest.
You've been strange these days.
I'll take care of the rest.
You can go home now.
When did you last eat?
Oh, dear.
If you kids were rice weevils,
we'd lose the harvest every year.
Right now, I have nothing to offer.
Would this be enough?
Is it for me?
How generous of you.
It's pretty.
Please accept this offering.
You're pretty savvy for a young monk.
This should be enough
to replace the temple's flooring.
What about me?
This bracelet's for the generous ones.
You only offered one nyang.
Kids these days don't even answer.
He was on a silent retreat.
Why does it have to rain today?
Your Highness, you might catch a cold.
Will it rain until tomorrow?
It looks that way.
Your Highness,
what are you looking at?
The muddy water.
Why does it have to rain
on her wedding day?
Even the sky is being petty.
It stopped raining early this morning.
Do you think it'll continue to rain?
Blast it.
What? What's the matter?
Why do you have to be so pretty?
You're too pretty to be anyone's wife.
What?
Hey!
You can't be this pretty!
What am I supposed to do now?
Madam!
Come out!
Don't even think about
calling off this wedding.
I want to live well now,
as a concubine in a powerful family.
With a man in his 70s
who could die any time?
I'm actually lucky.
He will lie quietly until he passes away.
I don't need to cater to him
or help him walk.
And then?
Will you live as a widow
for the rest of your life?
Never receiving love from anyone?
Does it matter?
Can love feed you? Buy you a house?
It only stirs up your heart
and turns your stomach.
It keeps me upset and on edge all day.
I don't want that. I won't do that.
Enough!
The lord will…
No.
I can't let you do this.
Call off the wedding now.
And then what?
Where will you live
after getting kicked out of this house?
Then who bears all the burdens?
My sick mother?
Young Master?
Do you really want me to struggle alone
in that dark pit again?
Don't you think that's too cruel?
Let me go in peace.
It's my fault.
This is all my fault.
I'm sorry.
Eun-jo, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry too.
Eun-jo…
What brings you here?
Forgive me. I know it is disrespectful
for a stranger to summon an unwed lady.
Please come inside.
You're my fiancé, not a stranger.
Soon I will be.
We're ending our betrothal.
I don't understand.
The reason for ending it…
Do you think refusing to become
a breeding horse will protect your pride?
The reason is…
Your name,
your wealth, your honor…
You cannot let go
of any of that.
That is what you are.
What a cowardly wretch.
If it's because of your love for No-eul,
the courtesan,
I'm fine with it.
If you keep saying you're fine,
you will have to endure something
you cannot be fine with.
The bride must call it off,
so she may be spared the consequences.
Wait.
You came all this way through the rain.
Does that mean it was a rushed decision?
Let us call it a fight for survival.
The rain seems to be getting heavier.
Let's get going.
Yes.
What is this?
They're silk shoes.
I said I wouldn't wear silk shoes.
They'll get all muddy.
They're not my silk shoes.
Some young man left them there
with the silk shoes.
He must've been worried that
you'd wear wet shoes on your wedding day.
It can't be…
Being in the rain,
it feels as though
all your sorrow is washed away.
I don't believe you.
It really does.
That girl, Eun-jo, knows
that someone as lowly as her
is not given any choice.
You really had to…
What are you doing?
What are you--
I'm treating you like an animal.
You don't deserve this luxury.
Do you want to be sold that badly?
My lord!
The Master
has passed away!
I'm an aide from the constabulary.
Take me to the prisoner.
What? What's the matter?
Call the soldiers.
-Now!
-Yes, sir.
GIL-DONG
Gil-dong?
Your Highness.
-What is it?
-It's liquor.
You look like you need some tonight.
Eun-jo.
Seok-sam?
You haven't eaten anything all day,
have you?
Here.
Have some.
How did you get here?
I was sold, of course.
We belong to our masters.
Since my master's family has fallen,
all his property has been confiscated.
Then I was sold
to this household yesterday.
I see.
Will the Chief Censor be exiled soon?
That man's no longer living.
Are you saying he passed away?
All of a sudden?
I can't believe it either.
What's even more unbelievable
is the rumor that is going around.
What rumor?
That my master
was killed by Gil-dong.
What? Gil-dong?
Gil-dong is a murderer?
What's this…
No one will come to the annex tonight, so…
Are you chasing Gil-dong now?
We're investigating the case.
Investigating what?
My husband wrote
the name "Gil-dong" in blood!
In blood?
Did he leave a will?
Please wait a little longer
until we find conclusive evidence.
We haven't found any evidence.
Let's go to the constabulary.
Let's go.
-Yes, sir.
It's Gil-dong!
Gil-dong is here!
Gil-dong?
Did he say "Gil-dong"?
That way!
I must get up.
How long have I been here?
Drinks and snacks?
I was being chased by soldiers.
What? Silk clothes?
Wait.
What happened to my hands?
Why am I so dizzy?
What happened?
Why am I in the market?
Gil-dong is here!
Find Gil-dong!
Gil-dong?
What?
This face…
It's the aide.
Anybody here?
Are you there?
Are our souls really switched?
Palace? I'm in the royal palace?
Dignity.
Since yesterday,
this has been my home.
Did you have a fight
with your wife last night?
Are you calling me husband?
I'm mad at myself
for giving you the silk shoes.
I didn't hear any cough so I checked,
and he was already gone.
Gil-dong's arrested?
Find His Highness!
Subtitle translation by: Sunyoung Baek